Complete specification for  cip-21 (#148)
celo-org/celo-proposals: CIPs/cip-0021.md

## Goals

- The lookback window parameter must be adjustable.
- The lookback window parameter must be constant during an epoch
- The community must decide on the value.

## Specification

The proposed solution is to migrate the parameter to the EVM state (layer 2).

> Starting at the first epoch after `HARDFORK_BLOCK`, block creation and validation MUST read the lookback window from chain state by calling the `BlockchainParameters` contract, rather than reading chain paramaters. Reward calculations are unaffected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting at the first full post-fork epoch (i.e. the same epoch as `HARDFORK_BLOCK` if it's the first block of its epoch, or the next epoch if it isn't), block creation and validation MUST read the lookback window from chain state by calling the `BlockchainParameters` contract, rather than using the value from the genesis config. Reward calculations are unaffected.
```

This change makes it correct also for the edge case where `HARDFORK_BLOCK` happens to be the first block on an epoch.

In order for `uptimeLookbackWindow` to remain constant during an epoch, the following rules are applied:

 1. The `setter` on `BlockchainParameters.sol` for `uptimeLookbackWindow` MUST apply the new value to the next epoch (not the current one)

>  2. The `getter` on `BlockchainParameters.sol` for `uptimeLookbackWindow` MUST revert if there's no value for current epoch. This error signals the blockchain client to use the `defaultValue` (pre Hardfork value).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 2. The `getter` on `BlockchainParameters.sol` for `uptimeLookbackWindow` MUST revert if there's no value for the current epoch. This error signals the blockchain client to use the `defaultValue` (pre Hardfork value).
```

 
As the `uptimeLookbackWindow` is now governable. Work must be done to verify the value is within safe boundaries; which are defined by the following rules:

 1. `uptimeLookbackWindow` MUST BE within the range `[MIN_SAFE_LOOKBACK_WINDOW, MAX_SAFE_LOOKBACK_WINDOW]`

>  2. `uptimeLookbackWindow` MUST BE less or equal to `epoch size - 2`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 2. `uptimeLookbackWindow` MUST BE less than or equal to `epoch size - 2`
```

>         window = chain.evm.get_blockchain_param("lookbackWindow")

Reviewer: github won't let me comment on the right line.  But the comment above: `# default to 12 in case of error` needs to be changed to reflect the changes.  Also this function is missing the `epochSize - 2` part

    require(
      window <= getEpochSize().sub(2),
      "UptimeLookbackWindow must be smaller or equal to epochSize - 2"
    );

    uptimeLookbackWindow.oldValue = _getUptimeLookbackWindow();

    // changes only take place on the next epoch
    uptimeLookbackWindow.nextValueActivationEpoch = getEpochNumber().add(1);
    uptimeLookbackWindow.nextValue = window;

    emit UptimeLookbackWindowSet(window, uptimeLookbackWindow.nextValueActivationEpoch);
  }

  /**
   * @notice Gets the uptime lookback window.
   */
  function getUptimeLookbackWindow() public view returns (uint256 lookbackWindow) {
    lookbackWindow = _getUptimeLookbackWindow();
    require(lookbackWindow != 0, "UptimeLookbackWindow is not initialized");
  }

  /**
   * @notice Gets the uptime lookback window.
   */
  function _getUptimeLookbackWindow() internal view returns (uint256 lookbackWindow) {
    if (getEpochNumber() >= uptimeLookbackWindow.nextValueActivationEpoch) {
      return uptimeLookbackWindow.nextValue;
    } else {
      return uptimeLookbackWindow.oldValue;
    }
  }
```

### Scenario Considerations

In the current specification, the following migration scenarios are considered:

>  1. **Hardfork is activated before Smart Contract is upgraded:** On this scenario, on the first epoch after hardfork the blockchain client will fail to obtain `uptimeLookbackWindow` from the contract; and will use `DEFAULT_VALUE`. Then, when smart contract is deployed (mid-epoch), it will continue to fail until next epoch where initialized value will be used. Thus, the value remains constant during the epoch.
>  2. **Smart Contract is upgraded before Hardfork is activated:** On this scenario, on the first epoch after hardfork the blockchain client will obtain `uptimeLookbackWindow` successfully from the smart contract, and use the same value during the epoch.
>  3. **setUptimeLookbackWindow() is called mid-epoch:** On this scenario, the new value will only be used after epoch change, thus value will remain constant during the epoch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 1. **The first post-fork epoch starts before a lookback window from the smart contract is available:** This scenario includes several cases: the smart contract not having been upgraded yet, the smart contract having been upgraded but `setUptimeLookbackWindow()` not having been called, or `setUptimeLookbackWindow()` having been called but its value not having come into effect yet.  In all these cases, in the first epoch after the hard fork, the blockchain client attempt to obtain `uptimeLookbackWindow` from the contract, but will get an error, and will then use `DEFAULT_VALUE`. This will continue until the first block of the first epoch after the contract has been upgraded and `setUptimeLookbackWindow()` has been called successfully, from which point onwards the smart contract call will succeed and return the lookback window which the client will then use. Thus, the value does not change within an epoch.
 2. **The smart Contract is upgraded and initialized before, or in the same epoch as, the hard fork activation:** In this scenario, in the first post-fork epoch, the blockchain client will obtain `uptimeLookbackWindow` successfully from the smart contract, and use that value during the epoch.
 3. **setUptimeLookbackWindow() is called mid-epoch:** On this scenario, the new value come into effect at the beginning of the next epoch, thus the value returned by the contract will remain constant during the epoch.
```

Making this more complicated, but more correct.  There be better ways to phrase things, though.
